2014.03.13

[Title Here]
before diving into big data, look at individual intent

Like most twenty-two-year-old college students, Christian Moscardi is on Facebook every day. Yet by looking at his wall, you'd never know it-- Christian hardly ever posts content; neither statuses nor photos interest him. "Maybe on the very rare occasion, where I'd think: wow I want all of my friends to see this right now", he pondered. 

For Christian, Facebook is not at all about consuming and sharing social media. Instead, it's a convinient way to reach all of his friends and colleagues. Communication-- via messages and chat-- is the feature he most values. Ideally, he'd "block everything", save for a "nice profile pic", and use his account exclusively for the messaging and networking aspects.

Twenty-eight-year-old Ph.D. student Sasha Rush also owns a Facebook profile that he rarely posts on. Unlike Christian, although he uses messaging sometimes, he has no special affinity towards it. Before he began to pursue his doctorate, Sasha was in fact an employee of Facebook as an engineer. Yet even during that time, when he had a "critical mass" of colleagues and friends, he contributed very little activity himself. 

When pressed to explain why, he grins sheepishly: "I'm a lurker", he admits. "I've always been". Uninterested in both photos and statuses, Sasha uses Facebook primarily as a way to keep track of his friends' intellectual and cultural interests through their posted articles and shares. Lately, he's been migrating towards Twitter, where reading is encouraged and easier to do. 

Facebook states that its mission is "to give people the power to share and make the world more open and connected" (cite). But in reality, not every person is a sharer, and those who do share are encouraged by different motives and means. Given the same set of tools, users are surprising innovators, picking and choosing the features that suit them best. Because of network externalities, migrating to another platform is often unappealing-- instead, people tend to creatively limit existing structures.

Social media scholar danah boyd reported on a similiar phenomenon in the way that Facebook users, specifically teens, retained sense of privacy. Instead of simply adjusting the settings to block certain friends, users tended to develop unique, innovative strategies in posting and sharing-- everything from self-censorshinp to account deactivation. Social networks create a sort of surveillance state, and under surveillance, people begin to develop methods to manage realities in which they are observed, leading to this innovation. (CITE) The same theory can be extrapolated to people's differing usages of Facebook at large, not just in their methods of privacy. Because one's Facebook network is essentially a public space, users adapt to participate and share in selected parts of this space. [CEMENT THIS ARGUMENT]

Occupation is a major factor in Facebook usage-- after all, the website was originally developed as a networking device for college students. Even though Facebook is now open to teens, for many adults, it remains a part of one's professional presence. For some, it is a useful self-marketing tool. Caroline Sonett, an aspiring musician, makes sure to emphasize her profession on her personal facebook profile, despite the fact that her network includes both family and friends along with business relations. She doesn't have a separate Facebook page for her music; choosing instead to promote upcoming concerts with status updates. "Usually my cover photo or profile picture is music related", she says. But because she finds that "people constantly promoting" their work to be "annoying", she is careful to post at most "once or twice" before a show. "I definintely see it as a partially personal and partially networking thing", she states. Even though she also posts photos and statuses about her personal life, because Caroline is friends with a diverse group of people, she carefully self-censors her statuses to avoid offending potentially useful relations.





thus, we need to remove another level of assumption-- that the user is unaware. And assume authenticity
but assuming authenticity/blind user flawed



This becomes an issue in big data
big data/growing
we need to take in these considerations, and look at intent foremost
propose possible solutions


Q E D!







