Prompt
For an alternative paper, students may write a reported story of 800-1000 words [APPROX LENGTH OF SELFIE ARTICLE] on a topic of their choosing (with approval from the instructors). In completing this assignment, students should expect to interview no fewer than 8-10 sources, of which at least 4 must appear via direct quotation in the final story. While students may use this story to pursue academic or technical topics, pursuing perspectives on the subject from outside the academy (e.g. in business, industry or among the general public) is expected. Ideal topics will relate in some way to the topics of the class and should be clearly contextualized within current developments in the area that have been reported in the popular press. See Report Guidelines.

My Idea
I'd like to narrow my focus to a more specific inquiry: 

What do different age groups/demographics view as their intended audience on Facebook, how do they personify that audience, and how often do their privacy settings reflect that?

As a springboard I'd like to use this paper: http://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/3086/2589

I can extend this to also look at Twitter users, to see how perceptions of audience differs.

This would still be the reported option.

Issue: hard to answer honestly and also hard to get people to let me look at their data, non-computationally
Human aspect is important!
Reporting = the experience, take notes, be illustrative
If someone doesn’t allow me to look at privacy settings, that’s also tell-tale

Interview Questions:
Do you use facebook?
Why do you use it?
If you post statuses/things, what’s the primary thing you’d post, and who would it be directed to?
Who do you imagine your facebook audience to be?
Do you use facebook lists to organize your friends?
Privacy settings:
Who can see my stuff?
Who can contact me?
Who can look me up?
Who can add things to my timeline?
Who can see things on my timeline?
How can I manage tags people add and tagging suggestions?
Restricted List
Blocked users
Do you read through privacy updates?


Interviewees:
Liz Day, College student (F)
Christian Moscardi, College student (M)
William Dellinger, Administrator (M)
Solomon Hoffman, Composer (M)
Caroline Sonett, Flutist (F)
Vivek Bhagwat, Twitter Employee (M)
Sasha Rush, Ph.D. Student, former Facebook employee (M)


FB lofty mission:
Founded in 2004, Facebook’s mission is to give people the power to share and make the world more open and connected. People use Facebook to stay connected with friends and family, to discover what’s going on in the world, and to share and express what matters to them.

http://www.tiara.org/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/marwick_boyd_twitter_nms.pdf

The ‘ideal’ reader is a well-known concept for writers, who often write ‘to’ an imaginary
interested party. In the tweets above, the ideal reader is conceptualized as someone simi-
lar to the writer, who will presumably share their perspective and appreciate their work.
Ethnographies of television production have similarly found that producers ‘imagine
others like and unlike themselves, (re)constructing their own identities in the process of
constructing the imagined audience’ (Peterson, 2003: 161). The ideal audience is often
the mirror-image of the user.

Strategic audience
In contrast to general notions of imagined audiences, Twitter users with numerous fol-
lowers expressed specific, pragmatic understandings of audience. A few mentioned real-
life friends, family and co-workers, but others with 100,000+ followers suggested that
they imagined their audience as a fan base or community with whom they could connect
or manage:

Micro Celeb
This approach can be understood through the lens of ‘micro-celebrity’. Senft describes
micro-celebrity as a communicative technique that ‘involves people “amping up” their
popularity over the Web using techniques like video, blogs, and social networking sites’
(2008: 25). Micro-celebrity implies that all individuals have an audience that they can
strategically maintain through ongoing communication and interaction. Twitter is used
this way by many people – including marketers, technologists, and individuals seeking
wide attention – to establish a presence online. Likewise, by embracing social media to
engage directly with their audience, many traditional celebrities and public officials
embrace the techniques of micro-celebrity.

Like many social network sites, Twitter flattens multiple audiences into one – a phe-
nomenon known as ‘context collapse’. The requirement to present a verifiable, singular
identity makes it impossible to differ self-presentation strategies, creating tension as
diverse groups of people flock to social network sites (boyd, 2008). Privacy settings
alone do not address this; even with private accounts that only certain people can read,
participants must contend with groups of people they do not normally bring together,
such as acquaintances, friends, co-workers, and family.
. The authentic is always manu-
factured, and always constructed in ‘contradistinction to something else’ (2003: 13). In
other words, for something to be deemed authentic, something else must be inauthentic.

Lisa Ede and
Andrea Lunsford (1984) distinguished further between the audience addressed – the
actual readers of a piece of writing – and audience invoked, the audience constructed by
the writer. Published writers are often told to tailor books to particular demographics;
these ‘future readers’ are a fiction about the audience addressed.


Dear Voyeur, meet Flâneur... Sincerely, Social Media


Danah’s Paper
We also show that women are uncharacteristically confident in their ability to address privacy settings and somewhat more engaged in doing so than men. We suggest that the ongoing public messaging targeted at women concerning the safety of social network sites may explain this gender difference. 

 When we break down these numbers by gender (see Table 6b), we see no differences among frequent users of Facebook. This is noteworthy given that it is rare for women and men to report the same level of comfort with online tasks.
 What we find among occasional users is more in line with how confidence measures tend to break down along gender lines: female occasional users of Facebook report lower–level confidence compared to male occasional users.
 
Overall, our data show that far from being nonchalant and unconcerned about privacy matters, the majority of young adult users of Facebook are engaged with managing their privacy settings on the site at least to some extent. The frequency with which they adjust their settings and their confidence in doing so may vary, but most report modifying their settings.

In contrast to other work on skill, we find no gender differences among the majority of our users when it comes to confidence in changing privacy settings on Facebook, which is particularly notable given that in almost all other online domains women report lower–level know–how than men. 


Twitter audience is completely public-- yet we might still personify our audience differently (idea of “followers”)

